.. vim: ft=rst sts=2 sw=2 tw=77

.. :Author: Roman Neuhauser
.. :Contact: neuhauser+git-pimp@sigpipe.cz
.. :Copyright: This document is in the public domain.

.. default-role:: emphasis

=============================================================================
                             Installing git-pimp
=============================================================================


Runtime Dependencies
====================

These are essential for `git-pimp` to function.

* Git_
* Zsh_
* `git-mantle`_, `git-mailz`_

.. _Git: https://git-scm.com/
.. _Zsh: http://www.zsh.org/
.. _git-mailz: https://github.com/roman-neuhauser/git-mailz
.. _git-mantle: https://github.com/roman-neuhauser/git-mantle


Buildtime Dependencies
======================

These are used to build and (optionally) test and document `git-pimp`.

* `GNU Make`_
* Docutils_ (optional)
* Cram_ (optional)
* Git (optional)
* Zsh

.. _GNU Make: http://www.gnu.org/software/make/
.. _Docutils: http://docutils.sf.net/
.. _Cram: https://bitheap.org/cram/

Both Docutils and Cram imply a Python interpreter.
Docutils is used to generate HTML version of README.rest and this file.
Cram is used to drive the functional testsuite.


Use a Ready-Made Package
========================

Packages_ for ArchLinux, CentOS, Fedora, Redhat, SUSE, ScientificLinux and
openSUSE are available from the `openSUSE Build Service`_ (OBS).

.. _Packages:
  http://software.opensuse.org/download.html?project=home%3Aroman-neuhauser&package=git-pimp
.. _`openSUSE Build Service`: https://build.opensuse.org/


Build a Package From Provided Descriptors
=========================================

The abovementioned packages are built using the package descriptions
provided with git-pimp.  `git-pimp.spec` supports rpm-based distros,
`PKGBUILD` is used to create packages for ArchLinux.
Instructions on using these are beyond the scope of this document.


Install From Source
===================

Most prominent `make(1)` targets:

* `check`

  Run the test suite.

* `all`

  Build the program and its manual page, and convert reSt files to HTML.

* `most`

  Like all, but skip the reSt-to-HTML conversion.

* `install`

  Install the program and its manual page.

The `GNUmakefile` is parameterized with the usual macros (and then some).
Notably, `PREFIX` (defaults to `/usr/local`) and `DESTDIR` (empty by default)
are used to derive installation paths.  Buildtime `PATH` is sanitized to
`{,/usr}/{,s}bin` by default.  If this is too tight for your system
(eg. FreeBSD) you will need to pass the correct value on the command line.

Example
+++++++

Let's say your system has Cram installed as `cram3` and the default
PATH value used by the makefile prevents make from finding some tools.
To build the artifacts and run the tests::

  make check PREFIX=/usr CRAMCMD=cram3 PATH="$PATH"

To install the artifacts (`PREFIX` must be the same during build and
install)::

  sudo make install PREFIX=/usr DESTDIR=/tmp/fakeroot
